The last topic we have to consider before implementing the algorithms really deep learning for Jay is
hyper peramivir.
So we can tune our natural networks with different parameters such as the learning rate momentum and
so on because we would like to avoid overfitting and under faithing.
But of course we want to make sure the algorithm is capable of learning the structure of the data as
quickly as possible.
So the first hyper Peramivir is the learning grade.
This is how we define the pace of the algorithm.
So the learning rate is high then the learning will be very very fast but it's not going to be accurate.
By the way this is the coefficient when we are dealing with the gradient.
So basically we are going to update actuates according to the learning rate.
And this is why if the learning rate is huge.
So if our fear is greater than one it means that the learning rate is too high.
The training will be fast but it may miss the optimum.
So what is it mean.
It means that if we have these three dimensional Plaut if the learning rate is very very small then
we are going to take very very little steps towards the minimum because we are the day the educator.
According to the math times the gradient if the alpha learning rate is small it means that we take a
very very little step in the direction of the negative gradient.
If the alpha learning rate is very very high it means that we are going to take a huge step in the direction
of the minima.
But as you may guess that if we are very very close to the minimum and we take a huge step then again
we are going to be far away from the minimum.
So if our thought is greater than one then we may miss the optimum.
If Alpha is very very small it means that the training will be very slow.
It will find the optimum whether it is a local or global optimum.
OK so basically we have to try several values for Alpha where we don't know for certain that what is
the optimal rate of learning.
What about momentum.
Momentum helps the learning algorithm get out of spot in the search space where it would otherwise become
stock.
So this is what we have been discussing that gradient descent has the tendency to converge to local
monomers.
As you can see this is the local minimum.
If we take a little stop to the left or to the right the negative gradient is pointing to this local
minimum.
So we are not able to escape it unless we use momentum because momentum has the learning algorithm.
Get out of sports in the search space where it would otherwise become stuck.
So it is a value between 0 and 1 that increases the size of the steps taken towards the minimum by trying
to jam from a local minima.
If the momentum is large the learning rate should be kept smaller and the larger value of momentum also
means that the convergence will happen fast.
So what's really important that this is what we have been discussing the gradient the sand has the tendency
to start at local minimum instead of the global minima and with the help of the momentum paramita we
are able to make sure that the algorithm is not going to stop at a local optimum but it's going to converge
to the global one instead.
So that's all about learning rate and momentum.
Finally I would like to tell a few words about regularisation.
So why do we have to use regularisation.
This is how we can control overfitting in machine learning as well as in artificial intelligence.
For example the most common technique is dropout.
It is an inexpensive regularisation of matter which means that we set the activation of a given now
own to be zero.
So basically if we apply dropout then we are going to get rid of some narrowings as far as the network
is concerned.
OK it is verse 12 it still has a gradient descent matter.
And usually we upright dropout in the hidden layer exclusively.
So we are not going to use dropout in the input layer of course because we need all the input.
And of course we don't want to apply dropout in the output layer because this is how we make predictions.
So we just apply dropout in the hidden layer which means that we simply omit.
Now roans we are given a priori probability for example with 0.5 which means that with 50 percent probability
we omit the given.
Now Ron why is it good.
We would like to avoid overfitting so we can prevent adaptation among detectors which had Dr. better
generalization in giving models bridleway drop out is not always working fine.
It is less effective as the number of training records rises up.
So when the number of training records is greater then tens of millions then dropout is not going to
be a good solution.
Thanks for watching.